docs/deployment-process/steps/conditions.md, before:

---
title: Conditions
description: Adding conditions to steps to define your project's deployment process.
position: 6
---

## Environments

Steps and actions can also have conditions. You can restrict a step so that it only runs when deploying to specific [environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md) (e.g., an Email step that only runs on production deployments).

![](3277617.png "width=500")


## Channels

If you have created some [channels](/docs/deployment-process/channels.md), you can also specify whether a step runs only when deploying a release through specific channels (e.g., a Script step that only runs for deployments through certain channels to configure extra telemetry). *This will only appear if you have created one or more non-default channels.*

![](3278573.png "width=500")

## Run condition

You can also specify whether a step runs only when previous steps are successful (default), when a previous step fails, or always.

![](3277616.png "width=500")

## Package requirement

The package requirement condition allows you to specify when package acquisition should occur. By default, a deployment will acquire packages immediately before the first step that uses a packages. This option can be used to explcitily indicate if a step should run before or after package acqusition.

![](step-condition-package-requirement.png "width=500")

There are three options to choose from:

- Let Octopus Decide (default): Packages may be acquired before or after this step runs - Octopus will determine the best time
- After package acquisition: Packages will be acquired before this step runs
- Before package acqusition: Packages will be acquired after this step runs

This option is hidden when it does not make sense, for example, when a script step is configured to run after a package step (packages must be acquired by this point).

Commit message:

Explained variable expressions in the run condition.

docs/deployment-process/steps/conditions.md, after:

---
title: Conditions
description: Adding conditions to steps to define your project's deployment process.
position: 6
---

## Environments

Steps and actions can also have conditions. You can restrict a step so that it only runs when deploying to specific [environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md) (e.g., an Email step that only runs on production deployments).

![](3277617.png "width=500")


## Channels

If you have created some [channels](/docs/deployment-process/channels.md), you can also specify whether a step runs only when deploying a release through specific channels (e.g., a Script step that only runs for deployments through certain channels to configure extra telemetry). *This will only appear if you have created one or more non-default channels.*

![](3278573.png "width=500")

## Run condition

You can also specify whether a step runs only when the previous step is successful (default), when the previous step fails, always, or when a variable expression evaluates to true. Variable expressions with machine level variables are not supported.

You can use the following expression to run a step only when the deployment is successful and when a variable evaluates to true:

```
#{unless Octopus.Deployment.Error}#{Variable}#{/unless}
```

You can achieve the opposite effect by swapping `unless` with `if`:

```
#{if Octopus.Deployment.Error}#{Variable}#{/if}
```

It's also possible to check the status of specific [steps and actions](/docs/deployment-process/variables/system-variables.md#Systemvariables-DeploymentStatusTrackingdeploymentstatus).

![](3277616.png "width=500")

## Package requirement

The package requirement condition allows you to specify when package acquisition should occur. By default, a deployment will acquire packages immediately before the first step that uses a packages. This option can be used to explcitily indicate if a step should run before or after package acqusition.

![](step-condition-package-requirement.png "width=500")

There are three options to choose from:

- Let Octopus Decide (default): Packages may be acquired before or after this step runs - Octopus will determine the best time
- After package acquisition: Packages will be acquired before this step runs
- Before package acqusition: Packages will be acquired after this step runs

This option is hidden when it does not make sense, for example, when a script step is configured to run after a package step (packages must be acquired by this point).
