docs/installation/installing-tentacles/azure-virtual-machines/index.md, before:

---
title: Azure Virtual Machines
description: The Azure VM Tentacle extension makes it easy to automatically download, install and register a Tentacle with your Octopus Deploy server.
position: 4
hideInThisSectionHeader: true
---

If you deploy software to virtual machines (VM's) hosted in Microsoft Azure, Octopus Deploy provides a [VM Extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-extensions-features?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json) that makes it easy to install the [Tentacle agent](/docs/installation/installing-tentacles/index.md).

Currently, only Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2016 are supported.

When enabled, the extension automatically downloads the latest Tentacle MSI, installs it, and registers the agent with your [Octopus Server](/docs/installation/installing-octopus/index.md). After Azure deploys the extension to your VM, it executes a series of commands very similar to the those listed in our guide to [automatically installing the Tentacle agent](/docs/installation/installing-tentacles/automating-tentacle-installation.md).

The VM extension can be installed in a variety of ways. Please refer to the appropriate page for details.

Commit message:

Add note to top to say the vm extension is still in preview

docs/installation/installing-tentacles/azure-virtual-machines/index.md, after:

---
title: Azure Virtual Machines
description: The Azure VM Tentacle extension makes it easy to automatically download, install and register a Tentacle with your Octopus Deploy server.
position: 4
hideInThisSectionHeader: true
---

:::hint
The Azure VM Extension is currently in preview.
:::

If you deploy software to virtual machines (VM's) hosted in Microsoft Azure, Octopus Deploy provides a [VM Extension](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-extensions-features?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json) that makes it easy to install the [Tentacle agent](/docs/installation/installing-tentacles/index.md).

Currently, only Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2016 are supported.

When enabled, the extension automatically downloads the latest Tentacle MSI, installs it, and registers the agent with your [Octopus Server](/docs/installation/installing-octopus/index.md). After Azure deploys the extension to your VM, it executes a series of commands very similar to the those listed in our guide to [automatically installing the Tentacle agent](/docs/installation/installing-tentacles/automating-tentacle-installation.md).

The VM extension can be installed in a variety of ways. Please refer to the appropriate page for details.
