docs/deploying-applications/certificates/index.md, before:

---
title: Certificates
description: Manage X.509 certificates with Octopus Deploy
position: 29 
version: "3.11"
---

X.509 certificates are key component of many deployment processes. Octopus Deploy provides the ability to securely store and manage your certificates, and easily use them in your Octopus Projects.  

## Securely Store Certificates and Private-Keys 

![](certificate-list.png "width=500")

- [Add certificate](add-certificate.md)
- [Replacing certificates](replace-certificate.md)
- [Archiving and deleting certificates](archiving-and-deleting-certificates.md)
- [Exporting certificates](export-certificate.md)

## Configure Subscriptions for Expiry Notifications 

[Octopus Subscriptions](/docs/administration/subscriptions.md) can be used to configure notifications when certificates are close to expiry or have expired. 

There is a "Certificate expiry events" event-group, and three events:  

- Certificate expiry 20-day warning  
- Certificate expiry 10-day warning  
- Certificate expired

## Import Certificates into the Windows Certificate Store  

Certificates can be imported to Windows Certificate Stores as part of a deployment process using the [Import Certificate Deployment Step](/docs/deploying-applications/certificates/import-certificate-step.md)

![](import-certificate-step-select.png "width=500")

## Use certificates for HTTPS bindings when deploying IIS Websites   

When configuring HTTPS bindings for [IIS Websites](/docs/deploying-applications/iis-websites-and-application-pools.md), a certificate can be configured either by:
- entering the thumbprint directly (this assumes the certificate has already been installed on the machine) 
- selecting a certificate-typed variable (this will automatically install the certificate)

![](https-binding-certificate.png "width=500")

## Create Certificate-Typed Variables 

Certificates managed by Octopus can be configured as the [value of variables](/docs/deploying-applications/variables/certificate-variables.md), and used from custom deployment scripts.

![](/docs/images/certificates/certificate-variables-scoped.png "width=500")

Commit message:

Added descriptions to certificates documents

docs/deploying-applications/certificates/index.md, after:

---
title: Certificates
description: Manage and deploy X.509 certificates with Octopus Deploy 
description: Manage X.509 certificates with Octopus Deploy
position: 29 
version: "3.11"
---

X.509 certificates are key component of many deployment processes. Octopus Deploy provides the ability to securely store and manage your certificates, and easily use them in your Octopus Projects.  

## Securely Store Certificates and Private-Keys 

![](certificate-list.png "width=500")

- [Add certificate](add-certificate.md)
- [Replacing certificates](replace-certificate.md)
- [Archiving and deleting certificates](archiving-and-deleting-certificates.md)
- [Exporting certificates](export-certificate.md)

## Configure Subscriptions for Expiry Notifications 

[Octopus Subscriptions](/docs/administration/subscriptions.md) can be used to configure notifications when certificates are close to expiry or have expired. 

There is a "Certificate expiry events" event-group, and three events:  

- Certificate expiry 20-day warning  
- Certificate expiry 10-day warning  
- Certificate expired

## Import Certificates into the Windows Certificate Store  

Certificates can be imported to Windows Certificate Stores as part of a deployment process using the [Import Certificate Deployment Step](/docs/deploying-applications/certificates/import-certificate-step.md)

![](import-certificate-step-select.png "width=500")

## Use certificates for HTTPS bindings when deploying IIS Websites   

When configuring HTTPS bindings for [IIS Websites](/docs/deploying-applications/iis-websites-and-application-pools.md), a certificate can be configured either by:
- entering the thumbprint directly (this assumes the certificate has already been installed on the machine) 
- selecting a certificate-typed variable (this will automatically install the certificate)

![](https-binding-certificate.png "width=500")

## Create Certificate-Typed Variables 

Certificates managed by Octopus can be configured as the [value of variables](/docs/deploying-applications/variables/certificate-variables.md), and used from custom deployment scripts.

![](/docs/images/certificates/certificate-variables-scoped.png "width=500")
