docs/deploying-applications/custom-scripts/aws-cli-scripts_content_[2018.2,).partial.md, before:

Octopus allows you to write custom Powershell scripts that have access to the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) via the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step. In addition, the script is run in an environment that handles authentication by creating the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` environment variables based on the AWS account that was selected for the step.

The proceeding instructions can be followed to configure the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step.

## Create an AWS Account

The instructions at [Creating an AWS Account](/docs/infrastructure/aws/creating-an-aws-account/index.md) detail the procedure for creating an account in Octopus.

## Create a AWS Account Project Variable

AWS accounts are included in a project through a project variable of the type `Amazon Web Services Account`.

![AWS Account Variable](aws-account-variable.png "width=500")

The `Add Variable` window is then displayed and lists all the AWS accounts.

Select the account that was created in the previous step to assign it to the variable.

![AWS Account Variable Selection](aws-account-variable-selection.png "width=500")

## Add AWS Script Step

Add the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step to the project, and provide it a name.

![Run AWS Script](run-aws-script-step.png "width=500")

### AWS Section

Select the variable that references the `Amazon Web Services Account` under the `AWS Account` section or choose to execute using the service role assigned to the EC2 instance.

![AWS Account](step-aws-account.png "width=500")

The supplied account can optionally be used to assume a different AWS service role. This can be used to run the AWS commands with a role that limits the services that can be affected.

![AWS Role](step-aws-role.png "width=500")

The default AWS region in which to execute AWS CLI commands is defined in the `Region` section.

![AWS Region](step-aws-region.png "width=500")

## Script Section

PowerShell scripts run by the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step have access to the AWS CLI executable `aws.exe` on the path. In addition the environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` are configured. The `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` environment variable is also configured if the script was run against an assumed role, or if the AWS service role for the EC2 instance running the script (i.e. the Octopus server) was used.

Scripts can be run from two different locations: source code added to the step, or a script from a package.

### Source Code

The first option is to add the script source code to the step directly. This is done by selecting the `Source code` option, and entering the source code into the text box in the `Script Content` section.

![Source Code](step-aws-script.png "width=500")

### Package

The second option is to run a script from a package. This is done by selecting the `Script file inside a package` option, selecting the package, and entering the name of the file within the package to run as a PowerShell script.

![AWS Script Package](step-aws-package.png)

Commit message:

Added notes on using the PowerShell modules

docs/deploying-applications/custom-scripts/aws-cli-scripts_content_[2018.2,).partial.md, after:

Octopus allows you to write custom Powershell scripts that have access to the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) and the [AWS PowerShell modules](https://aws.amazon.com/powershell/) via the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step. In addition, the script is run in an environment that handles authentication by creating the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` environment variables based on the AWS account that was selected for the step.

The proceeding instructions can be followed to configure the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step.

## Create an AWS Account

The instructions at [Creating an AWS Account](/docs/infrastructure/aws/creating-an-aws-account/index.md) detail the procedure for creating an account in Octopus.

## Create a AWS Account Project Variable

AWS accounts are included in a project through a project variable of the type `Amazon Web Services Account`.

![AWS Account Variable](aws-account-variable.png "width=500")

The `Add Variable` window is then displayed and lists all the AWS accounts.

Select the account that was created in the previous step to assign it to the variable.

![AWS Account Variable Selection](aws-account-variable-selection.png "width=500")

## Add AWS Script Step

Add the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step to the project, and provide it a name.

![Run AWS Script](run-aws-script-step.png "width=500")

### AWS Section

Select the variable that references the `Amazon Web Services Account` under the `AWS Account` section or choose to execute using the service role assigned to the EC2 instance.

![AWS Account](step-aws-account.png "width=500")

The supplied account can optionally be used to assume a different AWS service role. This can be used to run the AWS commands with a role that limits the services that can be affected.

![AWS Role](step-aws-role.png "width=500")

The default AWS region in which to execute AWS CLI commands is defined in the `Region` section.

![AWS Region](step-aws-region.png "width=500")

## Script Section

PowerShell scripts run by the `Run an AWS CLI Script` step have access to the AWS CLI executable `aws.exe` on the path, as well as having the AWS PowerShell modules imported. In addition the environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` are configured. The `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` environment variable is also configured if the script was run against an assumed role, or if the AWS service role for the EC2 instance running the script (i.e. the Octopus server) was used.

This means you can run scripts using a mix of the AWS CLI and PowerShell commands:

```
# This will write out information on the Get-AWSPowerShellVersion CmdLet.
get-command Get-AWSPowerShellVersion | fl *

Write-Host "Get caller identity with the AWS CLI"
Write-Host "aws sts get-caller-identity"
aws sts get-caller-identity

Write-Host "Get the version of the Powershell module"
Write-Host "Get-AWSPowerShellVersion"
Get-AWSPowerShellVersion

Write-Host "Get caller identity using the AWS PowerShell modules"
Write-Host "Get-STSCallerIdentity"
Get-STSCallerIdentity | Select-Object -Property *
```

Scripts can be run from two different locations: source code added to the step, or a script from a package.

### Source Code

The first option is to add the script source code to the step directly. This is done by selecting the `Source code` option, and entering the source code into the text box in the `Script Content` section.

![Source Code](step-aws-script.png "width=500")

### Package

The second option is to run a script from a package. This is done by selecting the `Script file inside a package` option, selecting the package, and entering the name of the file within the package to run as a PowerShell script.

![AWS Script Package](step-aws-package.png)
