---
title: Getting started
description: This section provides a conceptual overview of Octopus Deploy and provides step-by-step instructions to help you master the fundamentals of Octopus Deploy whether you are using the self-hosted Octopus Server or Octopus Cloud.
position: 0
hideInThisSection: true
---

This section provides a conceptual overview of Octopus Deploy along with step-by-step instructions to help you master the fundamentals of Octopus Deploy whether you are using the self-hosted Octopus Server or Octopus Cloud.  

## Core Concepts

Octopus Deploy is a deployment tool.  It takes the packages and artifacts generated by your build server and deploys them to various targets, be it Windows, Linux, Azure, AWS, or Kubernetes, in a safe and consistent process.

### Consistent releases

As an Octopus user, you define the process for deploying your applications. You specify the environments the applications are deployed to and who on your team can deploy to which environments. For instance, you might want developers to deploy to dev environments but not testing or production, and members of QA to deploy to test environments but not to production. Taking this approach means that even if different team members trigger deployments, the deployment process remains consistent. After releases have been created, they can be deployed as many times as you need.

### Octopus Server

You can install your own self-hosted instance of the **Octopus Server** or use the hosted version **Octopus Cloud**. Small teams can get started with either Octopus Server or Octopus Cloud for [free](https://octopus.com/free).

The guide below provides more information on how to [setup Octopus Deploy](#setup-octopus-deploy).

### Infrastructure

Octopus Deploy organizes your deployment targets (the machines and services you deploy software to) into groups called environments. Typical environments are **Dev**, **Test**, and **Production**.  With Octopus Deploy, your deployment targets can be Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, AWS, Kubernetes Clusters, Cloud Regions, or even an offline package drop.  Organizing your infrastructure into environments lets you define your deployment processes (no matter how many steps, environments, or deployment targets are involved) and have Octopus deploy the right versions of your software, with the right configuration, to the right environments at the right time.

You can also use [Octopus Runbooks](#octopus-runbooks) to manage the same infrastructure your software is deployed to.  

The guide below provides more information on how to [connect your deployment targets to Octopus](#setup-deployment-targets)

### Packaging applications

Before you can deploy software with Octopus Deploy, you need to bundle all the files required for the software to run into a supported package. The package must be versioned and stored in a repository. Octopus Deploy includes a built-in repository. We recommend configuring your existing toolchain to push packages automatically to the built-in repository or an external feed; however, you can push packages manually to the repository if you choose to.  

The guide below provides more information on how to [package your software](#package-software).

### Runbook automation {#octopus-runbooks}

A deployment is only one phase in the life of an application. There are typically many other tasks that are performed to keep an application operating. A large part of DevOps is running operations separate from deploying applications, and this is where runbooks helps.

Runbooks are used to automate routine maintenance and emergency operations tasks like infrastructure provisioning, database management, and website failover and restoration.

Learn more about [Octopus Runbooks](/docs/runbooks/index.md).

## Setup Octopus Deploy {#setup-octopus-deploy}

You have several options to setup your Octopus Deploy instance.

1. Octopus Cloud -> we host everything for you.  Learn more about [getting started](https://octopus.com/start/cloud).
2. Self-hosted on a Windows Server -> you host it on your infrastructure by [downloading our MSI](https://octopus.com/download) and installing it onto a Windows Server with a SQL Server backend.  Learn more about [our installation requirements](/docs/installation/requirements.md).
3. Self-hosted as a Docker container -> you run Octopus Deploy in a docker container (currently EAP).  Learn more about [hosting Octopus in a docker container](https://octopus.com/blog/introducing-linux-docker-image).

Don't forget; you will need a license to self-host Octopus Deploy.  If you are starting, we offer a [free license](https://octopus.com/start/server).

:::success
Read more on [setting up a self-hosted instance of Octopus Deploy](docs/installation/index.md).
:::

Once you setup Octopus Deploy, login to the Octopus Web Portal.  

!include <octopus-web-portal>

### First Deployment

We have created a step by step guide walking you through what is needed to complete [your first deployment](docs/getting-started/first-deployment/index.md) using provided examples.  It will cover all the basics you will need to know in setting up a POC or a Pilot.  

### First Runbook Run

In addition to the deployment guide, we have a step by step guide on how to do [your first runbook run](docs/getting-started/first-runbook-run/index.md) using provided examples.  

## Further Reading

This guide covered the basics of Octopus Deploy.  There are still many more concepts to learn.

- [Build server integration](/docs/packaging-applications/build-servers/index.md)
- [Deployment targets](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/index.md)
- [Deployment examples](/docs/deployments/index.md)
- [Multi-tenancy](docs/deployments/patterns/multi-tenant-deployments/index.md)
- [Workers](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md)
- [Security considerations for Octopus Deploy](/docs/security/index.md)
- [Upgrading Octopus](/docs/administration/upgrading/index.md)
- [Create your own CI/CD pipeline tutorial](https://octopus.com/docs/guides)
- [Runbooks](/docs/runbooks/index.md)
- [Octopus REST API](/docs/octopus-rest-api/index.md)
