docs/administration/security/cve/csrf-and-octopus-deploy.md, before:

---
title: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) and Octopus Deploy
description: Octopus Server actively prevents Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) using anti-forgery tokens.
position: 1
---

We take every reasonable effort to make Octopus Deploy secure against known vulnerabilities, mainly related to browser vulnerabilities. One such browser vulnerability is Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF).

## What is CSRF?

Using a CSRF attack a malicious actor could potentially simulate requests to the Octopus Server on behalf of an authenticated user. For more information about CSRF refer to the following:

- [Cross-Site Request Forgery according to OWASP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF))

## Does Octopus Deploy prevent CSRF attacks?

Yes. The Octopus HTTP API is protected from CSRF attacks out of the box by requiring an anti-forgery token. If you are using any tools provided by Octopus Deploy, including the Web Portal, and Client SDK, this is all done for you automatically.

## Troubleshooting

If certain HTTP requests are not correctly formed you may see an error message like this either in your web browser or when trying to use the Octopus REST API directly:

`A required anti-forgery token was not supplied or was invalid.`

Octopus also logs a warning like this to your Octopus Server logs:

`It looks like we just prevented a cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attempt on your Octopus Server: The required anti-forgery token was not supplied or was invalid.`

### Using the Octopus Web Portal

If you see this kind of error message when using the Octopus Web Portal in your browser, please try the following steps:

1. Refresh the Octopus Web Portal in your browser (to make sure you have the latest JavaScript)
1. Sign out of the Octopus Web Portal
1. Sign back in to the Octopus Web Portal
1. If this doesn't work, please try clearing the cookies from your browser and trying again
1. After signing in, you should see two cookies from the Octopus Server - the authentication cookie and the anti-forgery cookie. See the next section on [troubleshooting cookie problems](#cookies).
1. If this doesn't work please get [ask us for help](#support) - see below

#### Troubleshooting problems with cookies {#cookies}

Octopus requires two cookies when using a web browser: the authentication cookie and the anti-forgery cookie. Check in your browser and make sure both cookies are available. Either one of these cookies can be missing for quite a number of reasons:

1. Your web browser does not support cookies. Configure your browser to accept cookies from your Octopus Server. You may need to ask your systems administrator for help with this.
1. The time is incorrect on your computer, or the time is incorrect on the Octopus Server. This can cause your authentication cookies to expire and become unusable. Correct the time and configure your computers to automatically synchronize their time from a time server.
1. You are using Chrome and have not configured your Octopus Server to use HTTPS. Chrome has started to consider web sites served over `http://` as unsafe and will refuse to accept cookies from those unsafe sites. [Configure your Octopus Server to use HTTPS](/docs/administration/security/exposing-octopus/expose-the-octopus-web-portal-over-https.md) instead of HTTP. [Learn more about Chrome and the move toward a more secure web](https://security.googleblog.com/2016/09/moving-towards-more-secure-web.html).
1. You have a network device between your browser and your Octopus Server which is stripping cookies it doesn't trust, or is modifying cookies and setting `httpOnly=true`. The anti-forgery cookie is configured as `httpOnly=false` because the Octopus JavaScript client requires access to the cookie. Some firewalls or proxies can be configured to strip or modify cookies like this in the HTTP response headers. You should configure your network device to allow this cookie through to the browser without being removed nor modified.
1. You are hosting Octopus Server on the same domain as other applications. One of the other applications may be issuing a malformed cookie causing the Octopus authentication cookies to be misinterpreted. Move Octopus Server to a different domain to isolate it from the other applications, or stop the other applications from issuing malformed cookies. See [this GitHub Issue](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/Issues/issues/2343) for more details.

### Using the Octopus REST API with raw HTTP

If you use raw HTTP to access Octopus Deploy we recommend using an [API Key](/docs/api-and-integration/api/how-to-create-an-api-key.md) to authenticate your requests. Learn about the [Octopus REST API](/docs/api-and-integration/api/index.md) and [authenticating with the Octopus REST API](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/OctopusDeploy-Api/wiki/Authentication).

### Getting help from us {#support}

If none of these troubleshooting steps work, please get in contact with our [support team](https://octopus.com/support) and send along the following details (feel free to ignore points if they don't apply):
  a. Which browser and version are you using? (Help > About in your browser is the best place to get this information)
  b. Does the same thing happen with other browsers, like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox?
  c. Does the same thing happen for other people/users?
  d. Does the same thing happen when you access Octopus Deploy over another network, like from home or over your cellular network?
  e. Does the same thing happen if you use InPrivate/Incognito mode in your browser?
  f. Does the same thing happen after clearing all browser data for the Octopus Server (including cookies, history, local data, stored credentials)?
  g. Have you used any other versions of Octopus Deploy in this browser before?
  h. Do you have other web applications hosted on the same server?
  i. Do you have other web applications hosted on the same domain? (for example: `octopus.mycompany.com` and `myapp.mycomany.com`?)
  j. Do you have any intermediary network devices (like proxies or web application firewalls) which may be stripping custom HTTP headers or cookies from your requests?
  k. Please [record the problem occurring in your web browser](/docs/support/record-a-problem-with-your-browser.md) and send the recording to us for analysis. Please record the following steps: Sign out of Octopus Deploy, sign back in again, and then try to do the action that fails.

Commit message:

Added details on HTTP headers etc People keep asking about it after security audits are concerned about HttpOnly=false

docs/administration/security/cve/csrf-and-octopus-deploy.md, after:

---
title: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) and Octopus Deploy
description: Octopus Server actively prevents Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) using anti-forgery tokens.
position: 1
---

We take every reasonable effort to make Octopus Deploy secure against known vulnerabilities, mainly related to browser vulnerabilities. One such browser vulnerability is Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF).

## What is CSRF?

Using a CSRF attack a malicious actor could potentially simulate requests to the Octopus Server on behalf of an authenticated user. For more information about CSRF refer to the following:

- [Cross-Site Request Forgery according to OWASP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF))

## Does Octopus Deploy prevent CSRF attacks?

Yes. The Octopus HTTP API is protected from CSRF attacks out of the box by requiring an anti-forgery token using a combination of the [Synchronizer Token Pattern](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet#Synchronizer_.28CSRF.29_Tokens) and the [Encrypted Token Pattern](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_(CSRF)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet#Encrypted_Token_Pattern). If you are using any tools provided by Octopus Deploy, including the Web Portal, and Client SDK, this is all done for you automatically and transparently.

### Headers, Cookies, and HttpOnly

Upon authenticating your client, Octopus Server sends two cookies back to the browser via HTTP Headers:

- ​`OctopusIdentificationToken` with `HttpOnly=true` - this is an encrypted session token which can be used by the Octopus Server to identify the authenticated user who is making the HTTP Request.
- `Octopus-Csrf-Token` with `HttpOnly=false` - this cookie contains the encrypted synchronizer token which should be sent as a special header as part of every authenticated HTTP request.

After authenticating, your HTTP request should contain these headers to prove the identity and origin of the HTTP request:

- Cookies header containing the ​`OctopusIdentificationToken`
- `X-Octopus-Csrf-Token header` - this header contains the encrypted synchronizer token which proves the request is legitimate

If you are using any tools provided by Octopus Deploy, including the Web Portal, and Client SDK, this is all done for you automatically and transparently.

## Troubleshooting

If certain HTTP requests are not correctly formed you may see an error message like this either in your web browser or when trying to use the Octopus REST API directly:

`A required anti-forgery token was not supplied or was invalid.`

Octopus also logs a warning like this to your Octopus Server logs:

`It looks like we just prevented a cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attempt on your Octopus Server: The required anti-forgery token was not supplied or was invalid.`

### Using the Octopus Web Portal

If you see this kind of error message when using the Octopus Web Portal in your browser, please try the following steps:

1. Refresh the Octopus Web Portal in your browser (to make sure you have the latest JavaScript)
1. Sign out of the Octopus Web Portal
1. Sign back in to the Octopus Web Portal
1. If this doesn't work, please try clearing the cookies from your browser and trying again
1. After signing in, you should see two cookies from the Octopus Server - the authentication cookie and the anti-forgery cookie. See the next section on [troubleshooting cookie problems](#cookies).
1. If this doesn't work please get [ask us for help](#support) - see below

#### Troubleshooting problems with cookies {#cookies}

Octopus requires two cookies when using a web browser: the authentication cookie and the anti-forgery cookie. Check in your browser and make sure both cookies are available. Either one of these cookies can be missing for quite a number of reasons:

1. Your web browser does not support cookies. Configure your browser to accept cookies from your Octopus Server. You may need to ask your systems administrator for help with this.
1. The time is incorrect on your computer, or the time is incorrect on the Octopus Server. This can cause your authentication cookies to expire and become unusable. Correct the time and configure your computers to automatically synchronize their time from a time server.
1. You are using Chrome and have not configured your Octopus Server to use HTTPS. Chrome has started to consider web sites served over `http://` as unsafe and will refuse to accept cookies from those unsafe sites. [Configure your Octopus Server to use HTTPS](/docs/administration/security/exposing-octopus/expose-the-octopus-web-portal-over-https.md) instead of HTTP. [Learn more about Chrome and the move toward a more secure web](https://security.googleblog.com/2016/09/moving-towards-more-secure-web.html).
1. You have a network device between your browser and your Octopus Server which is stripping cookies it doesn't trust, or is modifying cookies and setting `httpOnly=true`. The anti-forgery cookie is configured as `httpOnly=false` because the Octopus JavaScript client requires access to the cookie. Some firewalls or proxies can be configured to strip or modify cookies like this in the HTTP response headers. You should configure your network device to allow this cookie through to the browser without being removed nor modified.
1. You are hosting Octopus Server on the same domain as other applications. One of the other applications may be issuing a malformed cookie causing the Octopus authentication cookies to be misinterpreted. Move Octopus Server to a different domain to isolate it from the other applications, or stop the other applications from issuing malformed cookies. See [this GitHub Issue](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/Issues/issues/2343) for more details.

### Using the Octopus REST API with raw HTTP

If you use raw HTTP to access Octopus Deploy we recommend using an [API Key](/docs/api-and-integration/api/how-to-create-an-api-key.md) to authenticate your requests. Learn about the [Octopus REST API](/docs/api-and-integration/api/index.md) and [authenticating with the Octopus REST API](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/OctopusDeploy-Api/wiki/Authentication).

### Getting help from us {#support}

If none of these troubleshooting steps work, please get in contact with our [support team](https://octopus.com/support) and send along the following details (feel free to ignore points if they don't apply):
  a. Which browser and version are you using? (Help > About in your browser is the best place to get this information)
  b. Does the same thing happen with other browsers, like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox?
  c. Does the same thing happen for other people/users?
  d. Does the same thing happen when you access Octopus Deploy over another network, like from home or over your cellular network?
  e. Does the same thing happen if you use InPrivate/Incognito mode in your browser?
  f. Does the same thing happen after clearing all browser data for the Octopus Server (including cookies, history, local data, stored credentials)?
  g. Have you used any other versions of Octopus Deploy in this browser before?
  h. Do you have other web applications hosted on the same server?
  i. Do you have other web applications hosted on the same domain? (for example: `octopus.mycompany.com` and `myapp.mycomany.com`?)
  j. Do you have any intermediary network devices (like proxies or web application firewalls) which may be stripping custom HTTP headers or cookies from your requests?
  k. Please [record the problem occurring in your web browser](/docs/support/record-a-problem-with-your-browser.md) and send the recording to us for analysis. Please record the following steps: Sign out of Octopus Deploy, sign back in again, and then try to do the action that fails.
