docs/administration/managing-users-and-teams/external-groups-and-roles.md, before:

---
title: External Groups and Roles
position: 3
---

Some of the authentication providers allow external groups or roles to be added as Members of Teams in Octopus.  This section outlines how to add external groups/roles to Teams.

Depending on which authentication providers you have enabled, the following buttons may appear on the Team page.

![](/docs/images/5672303/5866190.png "width=694")

## Add Active Directory group {#ExternalGroupsandRoles-AddActiveDirectorygroup}

This button appears if you have the Active Directory authentication provider enabled, and when activated you will see the following dialog

![](/docs/images/5672303/5866191.png)

The search on this dialog will locate any groups in the domain that start with the text you provide.

### Trusted Domains {#ExternalGroupsandRoles-TrustedDomainsTrustedDomains}

If your environment has trusted domains, you can search for groups in the trusted domain by prefixing the search text with "**domain**" (where domain is the name of the Trusted Domain).

## Add External Role {#ExternalGroupsandRoles-AddExternalRole}

This button appears if you have an external authentication provider enabled (e.g. Azure AD), and when activated you will see the following dialog

![](/docs/images/5672303/5866192.png)

The Role Id corresponds to the role id from the external provider (learn more about [roles for Azure AD](/docs/administration/authentication-providers/azure-ad-authentication.md)), Display Name is purely for display in the Team page.

Commit message:

Added final descriptions to admin section.

docs/administration/managing-users-and-teams/external-groups-and-roles.md, after:

---
title: External Groups and Roles
description: Some of the authentication providers allow external groups or roles to be added as Members of Teams in Octopus.
position: 3
---

Some of the authentication providers allow external groups or roles to be added as Members of Teams in Octopus.  This section outlines how to add external groups/roles to Teams.

Depending on which authentication providers you have enabled, the following buttons may appear on the Team page.

![](/docs/images/5672303/5866190.png "width=694")

## Add Active Directory group {#ExternalGroupsandRoles-AddActiveDirectorygroup}

This button appears if you have the Active Directory authentication provider enabled, and when activated you will see the following dialog

![](/docs/images/5672303/5866191.png)

The search on this dialog will locate any groups in the domain that start with the text you provide.

### Trusted Domains {#ExternalGroupsandRoles-TrustedDomainsTrustedDomains}

If your environment has trusted domains, you can search for groups in the trusted domain by prefixing the search text with "**domain**" (where domain is the name of the Trusted Domain).

## Add External Role {#ExternalGroupsandRoles-AddExternalRole}

This button appears if you have an external authentication provider enabled (e.g. Azure AD), and when activated you will see the following dialog

![](/docs/images/5672303/5866192.png)

The Role Id corresponds to the role id from the external provider (learn more about [roles for Azure AD](/docs/administration/authentication-providers/azure-ad-authentication.md)), Display Name is purely for display in the Team page.
