docs/guides/deploying-asp.net-core-web-applications/index.md, before:

---
title: Deploying ASP.NET Core Web Applications
description: This guide covers everything you need to perfor your first ASP.NET Core webapp deployment. 
position: 1
---

ASP.NET Core is the future of ASP.NET, and it contains many changes to how applications are built, and how they are run.

## Publishing and Packing the Website {#DeployingASP.NETCoreWebApplications-PublishingandPackingtheWebsite}

Once you have a project up and running (see the [getting started guide](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/getting-started.html)), it need to be published and packed

```powershell
# Publish the application to a folder
dotnet publish source/MyApp.Web --output published-app --configuration Release

# Package the folder into a ZIP
octo pack --id MyApp.Web --version 1.0.0 --basePath published-app 
```

If you are using the built-in repository, you can create a [zip file](/docs/packaging-applications/creating-zip-packages.md) instead. The generated nupkg or zip file should then be then be [pushed to a repository](/docs/packaging-applications/package-repositories/index.md).

If you are using TeamCity, you can use the [new TeamCity plugin for dotnet commands](https://github.com/JetBrains/teamcity-dnx-plugin).

## Deployment {#DeployingASP.NETCoreWebApplications-Deployment}

ASP.NET Core applications can either run as a command line program with Kestrel, or under IIS ([which also uses Kestrel - check out the book for details](https://leanpub.com/aspnetdeployment)).

:::hint
See the [ASP.NET Core IIS documentation](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/publishing/iis.html#install-the-http-platform-handler) for instructions on setting up IIS for ASP.NET Core
:::

When running under IIS, ensure the Relative home directory is specified as "wwwroot" for compatibility with IIS.

![](/docs/images/3702900/3964976.png "width=500")

## Configuration {#DeployingASP.NETCoreWebApplications-Configuration}

ASP.NET Core introduces a new JSON-based configuration file format. Octopus 3.3 introduced a new convention which can be used to update these JSON configuration files with Octopus variables

![](/docs/images/3702900/5275655.png "width=500")

![](/docs/images/3702900/5275656.png "width=500")

For more information, see the section on the [JSON Configuration Variables Feature](/docs/guides/deploying-asp.net-core-web-applications/json-configuration-variables-feature.md).

Commit message:

Fixed up doco to remove .NET Core wwwroot advisery

docs/guides/deploying-asp.net-core-web-applications/index.md, after:

---
title: Deploying ASP.NET Core Web Applications
description: This guide covers everything you need to perfor your first ASP.NET Core webapp deployment. 
position: 1
---

ASP.NET Core is the future of ASP.NET, and it contains many changes to how applications are built, and how they are run.

## Publishing and Packing the Website {#DeployingASP.NETCoreWebApplications-PublishingandPackingtheWebsite}

Once you have a project up and running (see the [getting started guide](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/getting-started.html)), it need to be published and packed

```powershell
# Publish the application to a folder
dotnet publish source/MyApp.Web --output published-app --configuration Release

# Package the folder into a ZIP
octo pack --id MyApp.Web --version 1.0.0 --basePath published-app 
```

If you are using the built-in repository, you can create a [zip file](/docs/packaging-applications/creating-zip-packages.md) instead. The generated nupkg or zip file should then be then be [pushed to a repository](/docs/packaging-applications/package-repositories/index.md).

If you are using TeamCity, you can use the [new TeamCity plugin for dotnet commands](https://github.com/JetBrains/teamcity-dnx-plugin).

## Deployment {#DeployingASP.NETCoreWebApplications-Deployment}

ASP.NET Core applications can either run as a command line program with Kestrel, or under IIS ([which also uses Kestrel - check out the book for details](https://leanpub.com/aspnetdeployment)).

:::hint
See the [ASP.NET Core IIS documentation](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/publishing/iis.html#install-the-http-platform-handler) for instructions on setting up IIS for ASP.NET Core
:::

When running under IIS, ensure the .NET CLR Version is set to `No Managed Code`

## Configuration {#DeployingASP.NETCoreWebApplications-Configuration}

ASP.NET Core introduces a new JSON-based configuration file format. Octopus 3.3 introduced a new convention which can be used to update these JSON configuration files with Octopus variables

![](/docs/images/3702900/5275655.png "width=500")

![](/docs/images/3702900/5275656.png "width=500")

For more information, see the section on the [JSON Configuration Variables Feature](/docs/guides/deploying-asp.net-core-web-applications/json-configuration-variables-feature.md).
