docs/packaging-applications/nuget-packages/manually.md, before:

---
title: Manually
---

The simplest way to create a NuGet package is to create it manually, using the NuGet Package Explorer. This isn't how we recommend creating your packages most of the time (read more about [OctoPack](/docs/packaging-applications/nuget-packages/using-octopack/index.md)), but it's a good way to get started, or when deploying one-off utilities.

:::hint
NuGet Package Explorer is an open source desktop application that makes it easy to view and create NuGet packages. You can download it from [the official NuGet Package Explorer website](http://npe.codeplex.com/).
:::

This six minute video (with captions) will guide you through the entire process of creating a package manually using NuGet Package Explorer, and then deploying that package to a remote IIS web site.

<iframe src="//fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/qc0mx7cyto" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" class="wistia_embed" name="wistia_embed" allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen width="640" height="360" style="margin: 30px"></iframe>

Commit message:

Added descriptions to packaging applications.

docs/packaging-applications/nuget-packages/manually.md, after:

---
title: Manually
description: Manually packaging applications for use in your deployments.
---

The simplest way to create a NuGet package is to create it manually, using the NuGet Package Explorer. This isn't how we recommend creating your packages most of the time (read more about [OctoPack](/docs/packaging-applications/nuget-packages/using-octopack/index.md)), but it's a good way to get started, or when deploying one-off utilities.

:::hint
NuGet Package Explorer is an open source desktop application that makes it easy to view and create NuGet packages. You can download it from [the official NuGet Package Explorer website](http://npe.codeplex.com/).
:::

This six minute video (with captions) will guide you through the entire process of creating a package manually using NuGet Package Explorer, and then deploying that package to a remote IIS web site.

<iframe src="//fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/qc0mx7cyto" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" class="wistia_embed" name="wistia_embed" allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen width="640" height="360" style="margin: 30px"></iframe>
