docs/infrastructure/dynamic-infrastructure/azure-service-fabric-target.md, before:

---
title: Create Azure Service Fabric Target Command
description: Cmdlet for creating an Azure Service Fabric target
position: 30
---

## Azure Service Fabric
Command: **_New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget_**

| Parameter                       | Value                                                       |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------           |
| `-name`                         | Name for the Octopus deployment target                      |
| `-azureConnectionEndpoint`      | Connection endpoint for the Service Fabric Cluster          |
| `-azureSecurityMode`            | Security mode, use one of the aliases in the table below    |
| `-azureCertificateThumbprint`   | Certificate thumbprint of the Azure Certificate             |
| `-azureActiveDirectoryUsername` | Username for accessing the Service Fabric Cluster           |
| `-azureActiveDirectoryPassword` | Password for accessing the Service Fabric Cluster           |
| `-certificateStoreLocation`     | (Optional) Override the default certificate store location  |
| `-certificateStoreName`         | (Optional) Override the default certificate store name      |
| `-octopusCertificateIdOrName`   | Name or Id of the Certificate Resource in Octopus           |
| `-octopusRoles`                 | Comma separated list of Roles to assign                     |

_Security Mode Options_

| Mode | Aliases |
| --- | --- |
| Unsecure | `unsecure` |
| Secure Client Certificate | `certificate` `clientcertificate` `secureclientcertificate` |
| Secure Azure Active Directory | `aad` `azureactivedirectory`| 

Examples:
```powershell
# Unsecure
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 1" `
                                    -azureConnectionEndpoint "connectionEndpoint" `
                                    -azureSecurityMode "unsecure" `
                                    -octopusRoles "ServiceFabricRole"

# Client Certificate
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 2" `
                                    -azureConnectionEndpoint "connectionEndpoint" `
                                    -azureSecurityMode "certificate" `
                                    -azureCertificateThumbprint "1234567890" `
                                    -octopusCertificateIdOrName "My Service Fabric Certificate" `
                                    -octopusRoles "Service Fabric Role"

# Client Certificate overriding certificate store
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 3" `
                                    -azureConnectionEndpoint "https://localhost" `
                                    -azureSecurityMode "certificate" `
                                    -azureCertificateThumbprint "1234" `
                                    -certificateStoreLocation "Custom Store Location" `
                                    -certificateStoreName "My Store Name" `
                                    -octopusCertificateIdOrName "cert" `
                                    -octopusRoles "sfrole"

# Azure Active Directory
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 4" `
                                   -azureConnectionEndpoint "connectionEndpoint" `
                                   -azureSecurityMode  "azureactivedirectory" `
                                   -azureCertificateThumbprint "1234567890" `
                                   -octopusCertificateIdOrName "cert" 
                                   -octopusRoles "Service Fabric Role"

```

Commit message:

added -updateIfExisting to all create cmdlets

docs/infrastructure/dynamic-infrastructure/azure-service-fabric-target.md, after:

---
title: Create Azure Service Fabric Target Command
description: Cmdlet for creating an Azure Service Fabric target
position: 30
---

## Azure Service Fabric
Command: **_New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget_**

| Parameter                       | Value                                                       |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------           |
| `-name`                         | Name for the Octopus deployment target                      |
| `-azureConnectionEndpoint`      | Connection endpoint for the Service Fabric Cluster          |
| `-azureSecurityMode`            | Security mode, use one of the aliases in the table below    |
| `-azureCertificateThumbprint`   | Certificate thumbprint of the Azure Certificate             |
| `-azureActiveDirectoryUsername` | Username for accessing the Service Fabric Cluster           |
| `-azureActiveDirectoryPassword` | Password for accessing the Service Fabric Cluster           |
| `-certificateStoreLocation`     | (Optional) Override the default certificate store location  |
| `-certificateStoreName`         | (Optional) Override the default certificate store name      |
| `-octopusCertificateIdOrName`   | Name or Id of the Certificate Resource in Octopus           |
| `-octopusRoles`                 | Comma separated list of Roles to assign                     |
| `-updateIfExisting`           | Will update an existing Service Fabric target with the same name, create if it doesn't exist |

_Security Mode Options_

| Mode | Aliases |
| --- | --- |
| Unsecure | `unsecure` |
| Secure Client Certificate | `certificate` `clientcertificate` `secureclientcertificate` |
| Secure Azure Active Directory | `aad` `azureactivedirectory`| 

Examples:
```powershell
# Unsecure
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 1" `
                                    -azureConnectionEndpoint "connectionEndpoint" `
                                    -azureSecurityMode "unsecure" `
                                    -octopusRoles "ServiceFabricRole"
                                    -updateIfExisting

# Client Certificate
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 2" `
                                    -azureConnectionEndpoint "connectionEndpoint" `
                                    -azureSecurityMode "certificate" `
                                    -azureCertificateThumbprint "1234567890" `
                                    -octopusCertificateIdOrName "My Service Fabric Certificate" `
                                    -octopusRoles "Service Fabric Role"

# Client Certificate overriding certificate store
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 3" `
                                    -azureConnectionEndpoint "https://localhost" `
                                    -azureSecurityMode "certificate" `
                                    -azureCertificateThumbprint "1234" `
                                    -certificateStoreLocation "Custom Store Location" `
                                    -certificateStoreName "My Store Name" `
                                    -octopusCertificateIdOrName "cert" `
                                    -octopusRoles "sfrole"

# Azure Active Directory
New-OctopusAzureServiceFabricTarget -name "My Service Fabric Target 4" `
                                   -azureConnectionEndpoint "connectionEndpoint" `
                                   -azureSecurityMode  "azureactivedirectory" `
                                   -azureCertificateThumbprint "1234567890" `
                                   -octopusCertificateIdOrName "cert" 
                                   -octopusRoles "Service Fabric Role"

```
