docs/infrastructure/index.md, before:

---
title: Infrastructure
description: Configure your infrastructure so Octopus Deploy can deploy software to your Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, AWS, an offline package drop, or Cloud Regions.
position: 2
---

With Octopus Deploy you can deploy software to Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, AWS, an offline package drop, cloud regions, or Kubernetes. These machines and services are your *deployment targets*, and because software is typically deployed to more than one machine (or deployment target) Octopus organizes your deployment targets into groups called [environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md). Typical environments are **Development**, **Test**, and **Production**, you can also assign [target roles](/docs/infrastructure/target-roles/index.md) to your deployment targets to further refine which deployment targets your software is deployment to. You can use [workers](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) to perform tasks that don't need to be performed on a deployment target or on the Octopus Server.

You can manage your environments, deployment targets, and workers from the **Infrastructure** tab of the **Octopus Web Portal**.

## Adding Accounts

You need to set up accounts for certain deployment targets before you can use them:

- [Azure Subscriptions](/docs/infrastructure/azure/index.md)
- [Amazon Web Services Accounts](/docs/infrastructure/aws/index.md)
- [SSH Key Pairs](/docs/infrastructure/ssh-targets/ssh-key-pair.md)
- [Username/Passwords](/docs/infrastructure/ssh-targets/username-and-password.md)
- Tokens

## Adding Deployment Targets to Environments

Deployment targets are added to environments in different ways, depending on the type of target and how they will communicate with the Octopus Deploy Server.

- [Listening and Polling Windows Tentacles](/docs/infrastructure/windows-targets/index.md)
- [SSH Connection](/docs/infrastructure/ssh-targets/index.md)
- [Offline Package Drop](/docs/infrastructure/offline-package-drop.md)
- [Azure Web App](/docs/infrastructure/azure/web-app-targets/index.md)
- [Azure Cloud Service](/docs/infrastructure/azure/cloud-service-targets/index.md)
- [Azure Service Fabric Cluster](/docs/infrastructure/azure/service-fabric-cluster-targets/index.md)
- Kubernetes
- [Cloud Regions](/docs/infrastructure/cloud-regions.md)

## Workers

Octopus comes with a [built-in worker](/docs/administration/workers/built-in-worker.md) that can run scripts and perform tasks that don't run on deployment targets. You can configure [external workers](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) and pools of workers to move these tasks off the Octopus Server for better performance and increased security.

Commit message:

Added Accounts and Deployment Targets to Infrastructure

docs/infrastructure/index.md, after:

---
title: Infrastructure
description: Configure your infrastructure so Octopus Deploy can deploy software to your Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, AWS, an offline package drop, or Cloud Regions.
position: 2
HideInThisSection: True
---

With Octopus Deploy you can deploy software to Windows servers, Linux servers, Microsoft Azure, AWS, an offline package drop, cloud regions, or Kubernetes.

## Deployment Targets

The machines and services that you deploy to are your *deployment targets*. Learn about adding and configuring the different types of [deployment targets](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/index.md), the [target roles](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/target-roles/index.md) that are assigned to the deployment targets, and [dynamic infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/dynamic-infrastructure/index.md).

## Environments

Octopus organizes your deployment targets into groups called [environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md) so you can promote your software through different stages of its lifecycle, for instance, from **Development** to **Test** to **Production**.

Learn about [Environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md).

## Workers

You can use [workers](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) to perform tasks that don't need to be performed on a deployment target or on the Octopus Server.

Learn about [Workers](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md) and [Worker Pools](/docs/infrastructure/workers/worker-pools.md).

## Managing Your Infrastructure

Select the **Infrastructure** tab to manage your:

* [Deployment Targets](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/index.md)
* [Environments](/docs/infrastructure/environments/index.md)
* [Workers](/docs/infrastructure/workers/index.md)
* [Worker Pools](/docs/infrastructure/workers/worker-pools.md)
* [Machine Policies](/docs/infrastructure/machine-policies.md)
* [Proxies](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/windows-targets/proxy-support.md)
* [Accounts](/docs/infrastructure/accounts/index.md)
