docs/installation/downloads.md, before:

---
title: Downloads
description: The downloads necessary to install the central Octopus Deploy Server, Tentacles, Command-line Tools, and the TeamCity Plugin.
position: 3
---
The latest Octopus Deploy MSI can always be [downloaded from the Octopus Deploy downloads page](https://octopus.com/downloads). You can also download any [previous releases](https://octopus.com/downloads/previous) from our archive.

## Download Permalinks

If you are writing a script or utility to automatically download the latest version of one of our products, you can use the following permanent links.

The Octopus Deploy server can be downloaded from the [slow lane](#slow-lane), which comes long-term support, or the [fast lane](#fast-lane) which is released more frequently and includes the latest features.

### Long-term Support (#slow-lane)

- [Octopus Server x64 (LTS)](https://octopus.com/downloads/slowlane/WindowsX64/OctopusServer)
- [Octopus Server 32-bit/x86 (LTS)](https://octopus.com/downloads/slowlane/WindowsX86/OctopusServer)

### Fast Lane (#fast-lane)

- [Octopus Server x64 (Fast lane)](https://octopus.com/downloads/fastlane/WindowsX64/OctopusServer)
- [Octopus Server 32-bit/x86 (Fast lane)](https://octopus.com/downloads/fastlane/WindowsX86/OctopusServer)

### Tentacle

 - [Octopus Tentacle x64](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/WindowsX64/OctopusTentacle)
 - [Octopus Tentacle 32-bit/x86](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/WindowsX86/OctopusTentacle)

### Command-line Tools

 - [Command-Line Tools](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/CommandLineTools)

### TeamCity Plugin

 - [TeamCity Plugin](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/TeamCityPlugin)

Commit message:

Link to the blog post

docs/installation/downloads.md, after:

---
title: Downloads
description: The downloads necessary to install the central Octopus Deploy Server, Tentacles, Command-line Tools, and the TeamCity Plugin.
position: 3
---
The latest Octopus Deploy MSI can always be [downloaded from the Octopus Deploy downloads page](https://octopus.com/downloads). You can also download any [previous releases](https://octopus.com/downloads/previous) from our archive.

## Download Permalinks

If you are writing a script or utility to automatically download the latest version of one of our products, you can use the following permanent links.

The Octopus Deploy server can be downloaded from the [slow lane](#slow-lane), which comes long-term support, or the [fast lane](#fast-lane) which is released more frequently and includes the latest features. Read more about long-term support, fast and slow lanes in this [blog post](https://octopus.com/blog/octopus-release-2018.10-lts).

### Long-term Support (#slow-lane)

- [Octopus Server x64 (LTS)](https://octopus.com/downloads/slowlane/WindowsX64/OctopusServer)
- [Octopus Server 32-bit/x86 (LTS)](https://octopus.com/downloads/slowlane/WindowsX86/OctopusServer)

### Fast Lane (#fast-lane)

- [Octopus Server x64 (Fast lane)](https://octopus.com/downloads/fastlane/WindowsX64/OctopusServer)
- [Octopus Server 32-bit/x86 (Fast lane)](https://octopus.com/downloads/fastlane/WindowsX86/OctopusServer)

### Tentacle

 - [Octopus Tentacle x64](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/WindowsX64/OctopusTentacle)
 - [Octopus Tentacle 32-bit/x86](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/WindowsX86/OctopusTentacle)

### Command-line Tools

 - [Command-Line Tools](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/CommandLineTools)

### TeamCity Plugin

 - [TeamCity Plugin](https://octopus.com/downloads/latest/TeamCityPlugin)
