docs/administration/authentication-providers/okta-authentication.md, before:

---
title: Okta authentication
description: Octopus Deploy can use Okta authentication to identify users.
position: 6
version: 3.16
---

:::hint
Authentication using [Okta](https://www.okta.com/), a cloud-based identity management service, is available in Octopus Deploy 3.16 and later.
:::

To use Okta authentication with Octopus you will need to:

1. Configure Okta to trust your Octopus Deploy instance (by setting it up as an App in Okta).
2. Configure your Octopus Deploy instance to trust and use Okta as an Identity Provider.

## Configuring Okta {#Oktaauthentication-ConfiguringOkta}

The first steps are to configure Okta to trust your instance of Octopus Deploy by configuring an App in your Okta account.

### Set up an App {#Oktaauthentication-SetupanApp}

You must first have an account at [Okta](https://www.okta.com/). You can sign up for a free [developer account](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

Once you have an account, log in to the Okta admin portal.

:::hint
After signing up to Okta you will receive your own url to access the Okta portal. For a developer account, it will look something similar to: `https://dev-xxxxxx-admin.oktapreview.com`.
:::

1. Select the Applications tab and click the **Add Application** button.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-add-app.png "width=500")

2. Click the **Create New App** button.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-create-new-app.png "width=500")

3. Choose **Web** for the **Platform** and **OpenID Connect** for the **Sign on method** and click the **Create** button.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-new-app-integration.png "width=400")

4. Enter an **Application Name** like Octopus Deploy and for the **Login redirect URIs** enter `https://octopus.example.com/api/users/authenticatedToken/Okta` replacing `https://octopus.example.com` with the public url of your Octopus server, and click the **Save** button.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-create-openid-integration.png "width=500")

:::hint
**Reply URLs are case-sensitive**
Please take care when adding this URL! They are **case-sensitive** and can be sensitive to trailing **slash** characters.
:::

:::hint
**Not using SSL?**
We highly recommend using SSL, but we know its not always possible. You can use `http` if you do not have SSL enabled on your Octopus Server. Please beware of the security implications in accepting a security token over an insecure channel.
Octopus now integrates with [Let's Encrypt](/docs/administration/security/exposing-octopus/lets-encrypt-integration.md) making it easier to setup SSL on your Octopus Server.
:::

5. You should see the **General Settings** for the app you have just created. For the **Allowed grant types** ensure that both **Implicit (Hybrid)** and **Allow ID Token with implicit grant type** are checked. Click the **Save** button to continue.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-general-settings.png "width=500")

### OpenID Connect Settings {#Oktaauthentication-OpenIDConnectSettings}

There are two values you will need from the Okta configuration to complete the Octopus configuration: the **Client ID** and **Issuer**. (The Client ID is also referred to as Audience.)

Select the **Sign On** tab and scroll down to the **OpenID Connect ID Token** section. Take note of the **Issuer** and **Audience** as you will need both these values to configure your Octopus server.

![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-openid-token.png "width=500")

### Assign App {#Oktaauthentication-AssignApp}

Next you will need to assign your app to people or groups within your Okta directory.

1. Select the **Assignments** tab and click the **Assign** button. You can assign your app to people, and to groups.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-assign-app.png "width=500")

2. To assign the app to all users, you can simply assign the default **Everyone** group to the app, and click **Done**.

   ![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-assign-to-groups.png "width=500")

## Configuring Octopus Deploy Server {#Oktaauthentication-ConfiguringOctopusDeployServer}

!partial <hint>

You will need the **Client ID** (aka **Audience**) and **Issuer** obtained from the Okta portal as described above.

:::success
Your **Client ID** should be a string value like `0a4bxxxxxxxxxxxx9yc3`.
Your **Issuer** should be a URL like `https://dev-xxxxxx.oktapreview.com`.
:::

Once you have those values, run the following from a command prompt in the folder where you installed Octopus Server:

```powershell
Octopus.Server.exe configure --OktaIsEnabled=true --OktaIssuer=Issuer --OktaClientId=ClientID

#Eg:
# Octopus.Server.exe configure --OktaIsEnabled=true --OktaIssuer=https://dev-xxxxxx.oktapreview.com --OktaClientId=0a4bxxxxxxxxxxxx9yc3
```

!partial <settings>

### Octopus user accounts are still required {#Oktaauthentication-Octopususeraccountsarestillrequired}

Octopus still requires a [user account](/docs/administration/managing-users-and-teams/index.md) so you can assign those people to Octopus teams and subsequently grant permissions to Octopus resources. Octopus will automatically create a [user account](/docs/administration/managing-users-and-teams/index.md) based on the profile information returned in the security token, which includes an **Identifier**, **Name**, and **Email Address**.

:::hint
**How Octopus matches external identities to user accounts**
When the security token is returned from the external identity provider, Octopus looks for a user account with a matching **Identifier**. If there is no match, Octopus looks for a user account with a matching **Email Address**. If a user account is found, the External Identifier will be added to the user account for next time. If a user account is not found, Octopus will create one using the profile information in the security token.
:::

:::success
**Already have Octopus user accounts?**
If you already have Octopus user accounts and you want to enable external authentication, simply make sure the Email Address matches in both Octopus and the external identity provider. This means your existing users will be able to sign in using an external identity provider and still belong to the same teams in Octopus.
:::

### Getting permissions

!include <admin-user>

## Troubleshooting {#Oktaauthentication-Troubleshooting}

We do our best to log warnings to your Octopus Server log whenever possible. If you are having difficulty configuring Octopus to authenticate with Okta, be sure to check your [server logs](/docs/support/log-files.md) for warnings.

You can also check Okta logs by clicking the **View Logs** link on the Okta admin portal.

![](/docs/images/okta-authentication/okta-view-logs.png "width=500")

### Double and Triple check your configuration {#Oktaauthentication-DoubleandTriplecheckyourconfiguration}

Unfortunately security-related configuration is sensitive to everything. Make sure:

- you don't have any typos or copy-paste errors
- remember things are case-sensitive
- remember to remove or add slash characters - they matter too!

### Check OpenID Connect metadata is working {#Oktaauthentication-CheckOpenIDConnectmetadataisworking}

You can see the OpenID Connect metadata by going to the Issuer address in your browser adding `/.well-known/openid-configuration` to the end. In our example this would have been something like `https://dev-xxxxxx.oktapreview.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`

### Inspect the contents of the security token {#Oktaauthentication-Inspectthecontentsofthesecuritytoken}

Perhaps the contents of the security token sent back by Okta aren't exactly the way Octopus expected, especially certain claims which may be missing or named differently. This will usually result in the Okta user incorrectly mapping to a different Octopus User than expected. The best way to diagnose this is to inspect the JSON Web Token (JWT) which is sent from Okta to Octopus via your browser. To inspect the contents of your security token:

1. Open the Developer Tools of your browser and enable Network logging making sure the network logging is preserved across requests.
2. In Chrome Dev Tools this is called "Preserve Log".

   ![](/docs/images/5670656/5866122.png)

3. Attempt to sign into Octopus using Okta and find the HTTP POST coming back to your Octopus instance from Okta on a route like `/api/users/authenticatedToken/Okta`. You should see an `id_token` field in the HTTP POST body.
4. Grab the contents of the `id_token` field and paste that into [https://jwt.io/](https://jwt.io/) which will decode the token for you.

   ![](/docs/images/5670656/5866123.png "width=500")

:::hint
Don't worry if jwt.io complains about the token signature, it doesn't support RS256 which is used by Okta.
:::

5. Octopus uses most of the data to validate the token, but primarily uses the `sub`, `email` and `name` claims. If these claims are not present you will likely see unexpected behavior.
6. If you are not able to figure out what is going wrong, please send a copy of the decoded payload to our [support team](https://octopus.com/support) and let them know what behavior you are experiencing.

Commit message:

update to explain about using Auto Login when you want to support Okta initiating the login.

docs/administration/authentication-providers/okta-authentication.md, after:

---
title: Okta authentication
description: Octopus Deploy can use Okta authentication to identify users.
position: 6
version: 3.16
---

:::hint
Authentication using [Okta](https://www.okta.com/), a cloud-based identity management service, is available in Octopus Deploy 3.16 and later.
:::

To use Okta authentication with Octopus you will need to:

1. Configure Okta to trust your Octopus Deploy instance (by setting it up as an App in Okta).
2. Configure your Octopus Deploy instance to trust and use Okta as an Identity Provider.

## Configuring Okta {#Oktaauthentication-ConfiguringOkta}

The first steps are to configure Okta to trust your instance of Octopus Deploy by configuring an App in your Okta account.

### Set up an App {#Oktaauthentication-SetupanApp}

You must first have an account at [Okta](https://www.okta.com/). You can sign up for a free [developer account](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

Once you have an account, log in to the Okta admin portal.

:::hint
After signing up to Okta you will receive your own url to access the Okta portal. For a developer account, it will look something similar to: `https://dev-xxxxxx-admin.oktapreview.com`.
:::

1. Select the Applications tab and click the **Add Application** button.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-add-app.png "width=500")

2. Click the **Create New App** button.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-create-new-app.png "width=500")

3. Choose **Web** for the **Platform** and **OpenID Connect** for the **Sign on method** and click the **Create** button.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-new-app-integration.png "width=400")

4. Enter an **Application Name** like Octopus Deploy and for the **Login redirect URIs** enter `https://octopus.example.com/api/users/authenticatedToken/Okta` replacing `https://octopus.example.com` with the public url of your Octopus server, and click the **Save** button.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-create-openid-integration.png "width=500")

:::hint
**Reply URLs are case-sensitive**
Please take care when adding this URL! They are **case-sensitive** and can be sensitive to trailing **slash** characters.
:::

:::hint
**Not using SSL?**
We highly recommend using SSL, but we know its not always possible. You can use `http` if you do not have SSL enabled on your Octopus Server. Please beware of the security implications in accepting a security token over an insecure channel.
Octopus now integrates with [Let's Encrypt](/docs/administration/security/exposing-octopus/lets-encrypt-integration.md) making it easier to setup SSL on your Octopus Server.
:::

5. You should see the **General Settings** for the app you have just created. For the **Allowed grant types** ensure that both **Implicit (Hybrid)** and **Allow ID Token with implicit grant type** are checked. Click the **Save** button to continue.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-general-settings.png "width=500")

   If you want to allow users to log in directly from Okta, you should change the **Login initiated by** to _Either Okta or App_. You should also configure it to _Redirect to app to initiate login_ and then set [Auto Login](index.md#AuthenticationProviders-AutoLogin) to true in Octopus.

### OpenID Connect Settings {#Oktaauthentication-OpenIDConnectSettings}

There are two values you will need from the Okta configuration to complete the Octopus configuration: the **Client ID** and **Issuer**. (The Client ID is also referred to as Audience.)

Select the **Sign On** tab and scroll down to the **OpenID Connect ID Token** section. Take note of the **Issuer** and **Audience** as you will need both these values to configure your Octopus server.

![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-openid-token.png "width=500")

### Assign App {#Oktaauthentication-AssignApp}

Next you will need to assign your app to people or groups within your Okta directory.

1. Select the **Assignments** tab and click the **Assign** button. You can assign your app to people, and to groups.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-assign-app.png "width=500")

2. To assign the app to all users, you can simply assign the default **Everyone** group to the app, and click **Done**.

   ![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-assign-to-groups.png "width=500")

## Configuring Octopus Deploy Server {#Oktaauthentication-ConfiguringOctopusDeployServer}

!partial <hint>

You will need the **Client ID** (aka **Audience**) and **Issuer** obtained from the Okta portal as described above.

:::success
Your **Client ID** should be a string value like `0a4bxxxxxxxxxxxx9yc3`.
Your **Issuer** should be a URL like `https://dev-xxxxxx.oktapreview.com`.
:::

Once you have those values, run the following from a command prompt in the folder where you installed Octopus Server:

```powershell
Octopus.Server.exe configure --OktaIsEnabled=true --OktaIssuer=Issuer --OktaClientId=ClientID

#Eg:
# Octopus.Server.exe configure --OktaIsEnabled=true --OktaIssuer=https://dev-xxxxxx.oktapreview.com --OktaClientId=0a4bxxxxxxxxxxxx9yc3
```

!partial <settings>

### Octopus user accounts are still required {#Oktaauthentication-Octopususeraccountsarestillrequired}

Octopus still requires a [user account](/docs/administration/managing-users-and-teams/index.md) so you can assign those people to Octopus teams and subsequently grant permissions to Octopus resources. Octopus will automatically create a [user account](/docs/administration/managing-users-and-teams/index.md) based on the profile information returned in the security token, which includes an **Identifier**, **Name**, and **Email Address**.

:::hint
**How Octopus matches external identities to user accounts**
When the security token is returned from the external identity provider, Octopus looks for a user account with a matching **Identifier**. If there is no match, Octopus looks for a user account with a matching **Email Address**. If a user account is found, the External Identifier will be added to the user account for next time. If a user account is not found, Octopus will create one using the profile information in the security token.
:::

:::success
**Already have Octopus user accounts?**
If you already have Octopus user accounts and you want to enable external authentication, simply make sure the Email Address matches in both Octopus and the external identity provider. This means your existing users will be able to sign in using an external identity provider and still belong to the same teams in Octopus.
:::

### Getting permissions

!include <admin-user>

## Troubleshooting {#Oktaauthentication-Troubleshooting}

We do our best to log warnings to your Octopus Server log whenever possible. If you are having difficulty configuring Octopus to authenticate with Okta, be sure to check your [server logs](/docs/support/log-files.md) for warnings.

You can also check Okta logs by clicking the **View Logs** link on the Okta admin portal.

![](../../images/okta-authentication/okta-view-logs.png "width=500")

### Double and Triple check your configuration {#Oktaauthentication-DoubleandTriplecheckyourconfiguration}

Unfortunately security-related configuration is sensitive to everything. Make sure:

- you don't have any typos or copy-paste errors
- remember things are case-sensitive
- remember to remove or add slash characters - they matter too!

### Check OpenID Connect metadata is working {#Oktaauthentication-CheckOpenIDConnectmetadataisworking}

You can see the OpenID Connect metadata by going to the Issuer address in your browser adding `/.well-known/openid-configuration` to the end. In our example this would have been something like `https://dev-xxxxxx.oktapreview.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`

### Inspect the contents of the security token {#Oktaauthentication-Inspectthecontentsofthesecuritytoken}

Perhaps the contents of the security token sent back by Okta aren't exactly the way Octopus expected, especially certain claims which may be missing or named differently. This will usually result in the Okta user incorrectly mapping to a different Octopus User than expected. The best way to diagnose this is to inspect the JSON Web Token (JWT) which is sent from Okta to Octopus via your browser. To inspect the contents of your security token:

1. Open the Developer Tools of your browser and enable Network logging making sure the network logging is preserved across requests.
2. In Chrome Dev Tools this is called "Preserve Log".

   ![](../../images/5670656/5866122.png)

3. Attempt to sign into Octopus using Okta and find the HTTP POST coming back to your Octopus instance from Okta on a route like `/api/users/authenticatedToken/Okta`. You should see an `id_token` field in the HTTP POST body.
4. Grab the contents of the `id_token` field and paste that into [https://jwt.io/](https://jwt.io/) which will decode the token for you.

   ![](../../images/5670656/5866123.png "width=500")

:::hint
Don't worry if jwt.io complains about the token signature, it doesn't support RS256 which is used by Okta.
:::

5. Octopus uses most of the data to validate the token, but primarily uses the `sub`, `email` and `name` claims. If these claims are not present you will likely see unexpected behavior.
6. If you are not able to figure out what is going wrong, please send a copy of the decoded payload to our [support team](https://octopus.com/support) and let them know what behavior you are experiencing.
